README.md, before:

Links to slides from [R/Pharma::conf 2020](https://rinpharma.com/)
=======================================

Pull requests welcome! Or add an issue, or tweet [_@freestatman](https://twitter.com/freestatman).

Videos of the talks are at <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCT2TrH2M4zbRJZMH6iusyBQ>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Workshops Material

[Workshop and speaker home page](https://rinpharma.com/workshops/)

- [Artificial Neural Networks in R with Keras and TensorFlow](https://github.com/leonjessen/RPharma2020)
Leon Eyrich Jessen (DTU)

- [Multilingual Markdown with R and Python Using Reticulate](https://github.com/atorus-research/MultilingualMarkdown) [:tv:](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fEoZynvUrkc&t=5124s)
Mike Stackhouse (Atorus), Nathan Kosiba (Atorus)

- [Tidy Transciptomics](https://stemangiola.github.io/rpharma2020_tidytranscriptomics/index.html) [GitHub](https://github.com/stemangiola/rpharma2020_tidytranscriptomics/)
Stefano Mangiola (Walter and Eliza Hall of Medical Research), Maria Doyle (Peter MacCallum Cancer Center)

- [Implementing a Risk-based Approach to R Validation](https://pharmar.github.io/rpharma2020/index.html), [R package risk assessment Shiny app](https://github.com/pharmaR/risk_assessment)
Andy Nicholls (Glaxosmithkline), Marly Gotti (Biogen)

- [RMarkdown](https://rmd4pharma.netlify.app/), [GitHub](https://github.com/apreshill/rmd4pharma)
Alison Hill (RStudio) [_@apreshill](https://twitter.com/apreshill), Tom Mock (RStudio)

- [Stan Workshop]
Daniel Lee (Generable)

- [Targets / Reproducible ML Pipelines](https://wlandau.github.io/rpharma2020/#1) [GitHub](https://github.com/wlandau/rpharma2020)
Will Landau (Eli Lilly)

- [Gt](https://github.com/rich-iannone/gt-workshop-2020)
Rich Iannone (RStudio) [_@riannone](https://twitter.com/riannone)

- [Unleash Shiny](https://rinterface.com/shiny/talks/RPharma2020/#1)
David Granjon (Novartis), John Coene (World Economic Forum), Colin Fay (ThinkR)
    * Post-workshop discussion on exercises: [:tv: Exercise 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VX8-szdSHZo), [:tv: Exercise 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6RMVLR2mjk4), [:tv: Exercise 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1WqlTndmO3Uj)

- [A PK & PBPK Modelling Workflow in R: Simulation, Optimization & Visualization](https://github.com/metrumresearchgroup/r-pharma-pkpd-2020)
Devin Pastoor (Metrum Research Group) & Kyle Baron (Metrum Research Group)

- [Predictive modeling with text using tidy data principles](https://textmodels4pharma.netlify.app/) [GitHub](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/textmodels4pharma)
Emil Hvitfeldt (University Southern California)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Talks Material

- [Challenges in an Evolving Regulatory Landscape: How Statisticians can Contribute]
   Matilde Kam (FDA)

- [Stack'Em High! Ensembles Using tidymodels](https://github.com/topepo/2020-r-pharma)
   Max Kuhn (RStudio) [_@topepos](https://twitter.com/topepos) / Simon Couch (Reed College)

- [The R Validation Hub: Implementing a Risk-Based Approach to R](https://pharmar.github.io/rpharma2020/)
   Andy Nicholls (Glaxosmithkline)

- [Interactive Medical Oversight Reporting in R](https://medical-monitoring.openanalytics.io/slides), [Example Report](https://medical-monitoring.openanalytics.io/report/)
   Laure Cougnaud / Michela Pasetto / Arne de Roeck (OpenAnalytics and Galapagos)

- [Implementing Mixed Models with Repeated Measures (MMRM) in R and Shiny for Regulatory Purposes]
   Daniel Sabanes Bove (Roche)

- [R Package Validation Framework](https://thebioengineer.github.io/validation_rpharma/)
   Ellis Hughes (Fred Hutch)

- [metashiny: Build Shiny Apps with a Shiny App]
   Bo Wang (Novartis)

- [Out of Chaos, Comes Order: Adventures in Standardized and Reproducible Research]
   Leigh Alexander (SomaLogic)

- [Numerical Validation as a Critical Aspect in Bringing R to the Clinical Research]
   Adrian Olszewski (2kmm)

- [geoMapr: A Shiny Application for Enriched Analysis of Drug Utilization Data]
   Jae Joon Song (FDA)

- [Becoming Multilingual]
   Bella Feng (Gilead)

- [Data Visualization Practices for Real World Machine Learning]
   Julia Silge (RStudio)

- [Using R to Create End to End Process Predicting Delay in Recruitment from Covid-19]
   Christina Fillmore (Glaxosmithkline)

- [With Great Graphs Comes Great Power]
   Baldur Magnusson (Novartis)

- [visR - A Package for Effective Visualizations in Pharma]
   Charlotta Früchtenicht (Roche)

- [safetyGraphics v2.0 - Open Source Collaboration in Pharma using R and Shiny]
   Jeremy Wildfire (Gilead)

- [Styling Shiny & R Markdown with bootstraplib & thematic]
   Carson Sievert (RStudio)

- [Clinical Reporting Using R at GSK]
   Michael Rimler (Glaxosmithkline)

- [Leveraging Nested Data Frames in Regulatory Submissions]
   Mike Mehan (Illumina Inc)

- [PREP – Packages fRom tEmPlates -An R Package to Streamline Development of Shiny Apps and R Packages]
   J. Kyle Wathen (Gilead)

- [openNCA - open source Pharmacokinetic data repository and Non-compartmental Analysis System]
   Thomas Tensfeldt (Pfizer)

- [tidyCDISC an Open Source Platform in R to Analyze Clinical Trial Data]
   Maya Gans / Marly Gotti (Cytel and Biogen)

- [Tplyr: An Intuitive Framework for Building Clinical Safety Summaries]
   Mike Stackhouse (Atorus)

- [yspec: an R Package to Create and Deploy Data Set Specification Objects in a Modeling and Simulation Workflow]
   Kyle Baron (Metrum)

- [Would John, Paul, George or Ringo Have Been Famous if it Were Not For The Beatles]
   Douglas Robinson (Novartis)

- [Julia in Pharma: The Ease of R Combined With The Speed of C++]
   Viral Shah (Julia Computing)

- [Building and Managing Unified R Environments For Data Science and Software Development]
   Dariusz Ratman (Roche)

- [Using R Markdown to Generate Clinical Trials Summary Reports]
   Radhika Etikala / Xuehan (Emily) Zhang (Fred Hutch)

- [Reproducible Computation at Scale With targets]
   Will Landau (Eli Lilly)

- [Seamless Visualisation of Complex Genomic Variations in GMOs and Edited Cell Lines Using gmoviz]
   Kathleen Zeglinski (CSL)

- [Improving Robustness of Evidence when Evaluating Causal Effects of Pharmaceutical Drugs in Healthcare Databases]
   Richard Wyss (Harvard Medical School)

- [r2rtf - a Lightweight R Package to Produce Tables and Figures in RTF Format]
   Yilong Zhang (Merck)

- [Benchmarking Algorithms for Subgroup Detection]
   Sophie Sun (Novartis)

- [The “See”-Value App: Visual Decision Making for Drug Development]
   Hannah Diehl (MIT)

- [It's a trap! A Data Science Case Story]
   Leon Eyrich Jessen (Technical University of Denmark)

- [X-Omics Platform]
   Stefan Pinkert (Merck)

- [RStudio's Pharma Updates]
   Sean Lopp (RStudio)

Commit message:

add talk slides for day2

README.md, after:

Links to slides from [R/Pharma::conf 2020](https://rinpharma.com/)
=======================================

Pull requests welcome! Or add an issue, or tweet [_@freestatman](https://twitter.com/freestatman).

Videos of the talks are at <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCT2TrH2M4zbRJZMH6iusyBQ>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Workshops Material

[Workshop and speaker home page](https://rinpharma.com/workshops/)

- [Artificial Neural Networks in R with Keras and TensorFlow](https://github.com/leonjessen/RPharma2020)
Leon Eyrich Jessen (DTU)

- [Multilingual Markdown with R and Python Using Reticulate](https://github.com/atorus-research/MultilingualMarkdown) [:tv:](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fEoZynvUrkc&t=5124s)
Mike Stackhouse (Atorus), Nathan Kosiba (Atorus)

- [Tidy Transciptomics](https://stemangiola.github.io/rpharma2020_tidytranscriptomics/index.html) [GitHub](https://github.com/stemangiola/rpharma2020_tidytranscriptomics/)
Stefano Mangiola (Walter and Eliza Hall of Medical Research), Maria Doyle (Peter MacCallum Cancer Center)

- [Implementing a Risk-based Approach to R Validation](https://pharmar.github.io/rpharma2020/index.html), [R package risk assessment Shiny app](https://github.com/pharmaR/risk_assessment)
Andy Nicholls (Glaxosmithkline), Marly Gotti (Biogen)

- [RMarkdown](https://rmd4pharma.netlify.app/), [GitHub](https://github.com/apreshill/rmd4pharma)
Alison Hill (RStudio) [_@apreshill](https://twitter.com/apreshill), Tom Mock (RStudio)

- [Stan Workshop]
Daniel Lee (Generable)

- [Targets / Reproducible ML Pipelines](https://wlandau.github.io/rpharma2020/#1) [GitHub](https://github.com/wlandau/rpharma2020)
Will Landau (Eli Lilly)

- [Gt](https://github.com/rich-iannone/gt-workshop-2020)
Rich Iannone (RStudio) [_@riannone](https://twitter.com/riannone)

- [Unleash Shiny](https://rinterface.com/shiny/talks/RPharma2020/#1)
David Granjon (Novartis), John Coene (World Economic Forum), Colin Fay (ThinkR)
    * Post-workshop discussion on exercises: [:tv: Exercise 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VX8-szdSHZo), [:tv: Exercise 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6RMVLR2mjk4), [:tv: Exercise 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1WqlTndmO3Uj)

- [A PK & PBPK Modelling Workflow in R: Simulation, Optimization & Visualization](https://github.com/metrumresearchgroup/r-pharma-pkpd-2020)
Devin Pastoor (Metrum Research Group) & Kyle Baron (Metrum Research Group)

- [Predictive modeling with text using tidy data principles](https://textmodels4pharma.netlify.app/) [GitHub](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/textmodels4pharma)
Emil Hvitfeldt (University Southern California)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Talks Material

### Day 1
- [Challenges in an Evolving Regulatory Landscape: How Statisticians can Contribute]
   Matilde Kam (FDA)

- [Stack'Em High! Ensembles Using tidymodels](https://github.com/topepo/2020-r-pharma)
   Max Kuhn (RStudio) [_@topepos](https://twitter.com/topepos) / Simon Couch (Reed College)

- [The R Validation Hub: Implementing a Risk-Based Approach to R](https://pharmar.github.io/rpharma2020/)
   Andy Nicholls (Glaxosmithkline)

- [Interactive Medical Oversight Reporting in R](https://medical-monitoring.openanalytics.io/slides), [Example Report](https://medical-monitoring.openanalytics.io/report/)
   Laure Cougnaud / Michela Pasetto / Arne de Roeck (OpenAnalytics and Galapagos)

- [Implementing Mixed Models with Repeated Measures (MMRM) in R and Shiny for Regulatory Purposes]
   Daniel Sabanes Bove (Roche)

- [R Package Validation Framework](https://thebioengineer.github.io/validation_rpharma/)
   Ellis Hughes (Fred Hutch)

- [metashiny: Build Shiny Apps with a Shiny App]
   Bo Wang (Novartis)

- [Out of Chaos, Comes Order: Adventures in Standardized and Reproducible Research]
   Leigh Alexander (SomaLogic)

- [Numerical Validation as a Critical Aspect in Bringing R to the Clinical Research]
   Adrian Olszewski (2kmm)

- [geoMapr: A Shiny Application for Enriched Analysis of Drug Utilization Data]
   Jae Joon Song (FDA)

- [Becoming Multilingual]
   Bella Feng (Gilead)

### Day 2

- [Data Visualization Practices for Real World Machine Learning]
   Julia Silge (RStudio)

- [Using R to Create End to End Process Predicting Delay in Recruitment from Covid-19]
   Christina Fillmore (Glaxosmithkline)

- [With Great Graphs Comes Great Power]
   Baldur Magnusson (Novartis)

- [visR - A Package for Effective Visualizations in Pharma] [:house:](https://openpharma.github.io/visR/)
   Charlotta Früchtenicht (Roche)

- [safetyGraphics v2.0 - Open Source Collaboration in Pharma using R and Shiny](https://github.com/SafetyGraphics/SafetyGraphics.github.io/raw/master/presentations/SafetyGraphics_RPharma2020.pdf)
   Jeremy Wildfire (Gilead)

- [Styling Shiny & R Markdown with bootstraplib & thematic](https://talks.cpsievert.me/20201014/#1)
   Carson Sievert (RStudio)

- [Clinical Reporting Using R at GSK]
   Michael Rimler (Glaxosmithkline)

- [Leveraging Nested Data Frames in Regulatory Submissions] [:cloud: RStudio Cloud](https://rstudio.cloud/spaces/96724/projects) Slides are available in the RStudio Project.
   Mike Mehan (Illumina Inc)

- [PREP – Packages fRom tEmPlates -An R Package to Streamline Development of Shiny Apps and R Packages] ["house"](https://biopharmsoftgrp.github.io/PREP/index.html)
   J. Kyle Wathen (Gilead)

- [openNCA - open source Pharmacokinetic data repository and Non-compartmental Analysis System] [:octocat:](https://github.com/tensfeldt/openNCA)
   Thomas Tensfeldt (Pfizer)

- [tidyCDISC an Open Source Platform in R to Analyze Clinical Trial Data](https://github.com/MayaGans/tidyCDISC-slides) [:tv: Demo](https://vimeo.com/466364530)
   Maya Gans / Marly Gotti (Cytel and Biogen)

- [Tplyr: An Intuitive Framework for Building Clinical Safety Summaries] [:house:](https://atorus-research.github.io/Tplyr/)
   Mike Stackhouse (Atorus)

- [yspec: an R Package to Create and Deploy Data Set Specification Objects in a Modeling and Simulation Workflow](https://metrumresearchgroup.github.io/yspec/rpharma-2020.pdf)
   Kyle Baron (Metrum)

### Day 3

- [Would John, Paul, George or Ringo Have Been Famous if it Were Not For The Beatles]
   Douglas Robinson (Novartis)

- [Julia in Pharma: The Ease of R Combined With The Speed of C++]
   Viral Shah (Julia Computing)

- [Building and Managing Unified R Environments For Data Science and Software Development]
   Dariusz Ratman (Roche)

- [Using R Markdown to Generate Clinical Trials Summary Reports]
   Radhika Etikala / Xuehan (Emily) Zhang (Fred Hutch)

- [Reproducible Computation at Scale With targets]
   Will Landau (Eli Lilly)

- [Seamless Visualisation of Complex Genomic Variations in GMOs and Edited Cell Lines Using gmoviz]
   Kathleen Zeglinski (CSL)

- [Improving Robustness of Evidence when Evaluating Causal Effects of Pharmaceutical Drugs in Healthcare Databases]
   Richard Wyss (Harvard Medical School)

- [r2rtf - a Lightweight R Package to Produce Tables and Figures in RTF Format]
   Yilong Zhang (Merck)

- [Benchmarking Algorithms for Subgroup Detection]
   Sophie Sun (Novartis)

- [The “See”-Value App: Visual Decision Making for Drug Development]
   Hannah Diehl (MIT)

- [It's a trap! A Data Science Case Story]
   Leon Eyrich Jessen (Technical University of Denmark)

- [X-Omics Platform]
   Stefan Pinkert (Merck)

- [RStudio's Pharma Updates]
   Sean Lopp (RStudio)
